# Why ps sucks?

=Messy options=

This is the first reason and motivation that made me fork ps. It supports Unix options, BSD options and GNU options. But the options are difficult to remember and are prone to errors.

According to ps(1):
 
    The use of BSD-style options will add process state (stat=STAT) to the default display and show the command args (args=COMMAND) instead of the executable name. ... The use of BSD-style options will also change the process selection to include processes on other terminals (TTYs) that are owned by you.

Adding the fact that BSD options and other options do not overlap, some functions are only avaiable in a BSD option or non-BSD option. When the user is trying the options, he may see different output due to BSD option effects. This will not give the user a consistent output, while make the user distracted.


=Badly documented=

The man page ps(1) documents the ps command. But it omits many of the intricacies under the hood. Just look at the 4th paragraph of Description Section of the man page, it gives you a mess from the start.

Either simple selection or selection by list, only the last selection expression is applied. This is not documented. Though there are many filters, but in fact you can only use one at a time.

=Weird output=

if you evoke `ps -t`, ps will tell you:

 `Warning: bad ps syntax, perhaps a bogus '-'? See http://procps.sf.net/faq.html`

followed by `ps t` output. ps thinks you are actually using `t`, when you mean `-t` but forgot the `ttylist` arguments. GNU ps will tell you what's wrong:

 `$ gps -t`
 `ERROR: List of terminals (pty, tty...) must follow -t.`

This is much clearer.


=ps frustration=

Here listed are people frustrated by ps:

http://serverfault.com/questions/72119/ps-on-slackware-works-weird-why-does-it-show-the-process-multiple-times